The city of London is one of the most famous cities in the world.
In previous centuries, London was the center of the British Empire.
Today, it is one of the most important cities of the emerging European Union.
London is located in southeastern England, on the Thames River.
The greater London area contains about 12 million people, and the surrounding areas contain several million more.
London was the first city in the modern world to have reached a population of one million people.
London is a very old city,
and many of its neighborhoods maintain their distinct character.
One of the most famous parts of London is the East End,
where people speak with an accent known as "Cockney".
One of the features of the Cockney accent is that the letter "h" is often not pronounced.
London's population is very cosmopolitan.
The city contains, in addition to people of English background,
large communities of South Asian, Chinese, African, and Caribbean people.
Most of these people have their origins in countries that belong to the British Commonwealth of Nations.
Many of the most famous buildings in London are located in a small central area.
This area contains several huge churches, including Westminster Abbey,
where many famous people are buried.
Another famous church is St. Paul's Cathedral,
which was rebuilt after the original was destroyed by fire in the year 1665.
The Houses of Parliament are also found in central London.
These buildings are famous for their Gothic architecture
and for the sound of the large clock, known as "Big Ben".
The Tower of London, which was formerly used as a prison, is now a popular tourist attraction.
Buckingham Palace, the residence of the royal family,
was first opened for public viewing during the 1990s.
London is also famous for its many impressive museums, art galleries, and theatres.
For example, the British Museum contains priceless objects from all parts of the world.
The National Gallery holds a great collection of artistic masterpieces.
The Globe Theatre has been rebuilt to appear as it did during the time of Shakespeare.
Despite its age, London remains a vibrant and busy city.
Most of the cultural and financial institutions in England are located in London,
and the city attracts many young people from other parts of England and around the world.
Of course, London is popular with tourists who come to see the many attractions of this city.
