Some people are just born to create. That's what I think.
Some people just have the need to write stories,
compose beautiful music, or paint pictures.
Creativity seems to be inside them, and they need to let it out.
It's good that we have people like that.
Composers like Mozart and Chopin have given us music that is incredibly beautiful.
It's not just the classical composers who have given us great pieces of music;
there are modern composers who have written great songs also.
Elton John is an example of someone who has composed many wonderful songs.
Andrew Lloyd Webber has given us some very popular musicals like Cats and The Phantom of the Opera.
There are so many talented and creative people in this world.
When you visit an art gallery,
you marvel at how artists are able to recreate realism
or make up something that seems totally unreal yet beautiful.
The American artist Norman Rockwell painted some pictures that actually look like photographs.
He tried to portray life as it was in America.
Through his paintings, one can get a good sense of American life through the years.
On the other hand, artists like Jackson Pollock did not portray realism.
Jackson Pollock painted abstract pictures.
His paintings are just as good as Norman Rockwell's,
but they are entirely different.
Some books that we read are classics.
Mark Twain portrayed American life through his characters Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn.
Charles Dickens brought Victorian England to life through his books.
Most people are familiar with his Christmas Carol
where the mean and miserable Scrooge learns the true meaning of Christmas.
People don't have to read the classics.
There are modern writers who entertain readers through their stories.
Stephen King has written a number of horror stories.
Some of his books have even been made into movies.
We are lucky to have creative people who share their gifts with us.
If you are lucky enough to be creative,
you should use your talents to create works of art that we can all share.
