John, I've just had some good news.
Susan has had her baby.
Do you know when she had it?
Yesterday.
The 10th of August.
Oh, my father was born on August the 10th.
Give me the details and I'll make a note for everyone at work.
Okay.
Well, was it a boy or a girl?
It's a boy.
And what are they going to call him?
Tom.
Tom Lightfoot.
It sounds quite good, don't you think?
Yes, that has quite a good ring to it.
You know he's quite a big baby.
He weighed 4.25 kilos when he was born.
That does sound big, 4.25 kilos.
And he's long too, 46 centimetres.
Mmmm. Tall parents.
He'll grow up to be over 2 metres, I'd say.
With masses of black hair, curly black hair.
You know, we should go and visit them in hospital.
What about tomorrow afternoon at around 1 pm?
Yes, okay.
Where should we meet?...
Ah, I could come and pick you up at your house, if you like.
Yes, that would be wonderful.
My car is still off the road.
Just refresh my memory....
What's the address again?
It's 15 Chesterfield Road, Paddington.
It's next to the library, isn't it?
Not exactly. It's next to a bank.
The State Bank actually.
The library is opposite us, on the corner.
That's right,
and there's a garage on the other street corner. I remember now.
So, you'll pick me up at 12.45
and we'll be there at one easily.
Now what should we take?
We must take them something.
I always think flowers are good to take to someone in hospital, don't you?
Well, not really.
Everyone always brings flowers and they don't last.
I think it's much better to take a pot plant,
so she can take it home with her.
Yes, but then she has to remember to water it.
What about a big box of chocolates?
Okay, chocolates sound fine.
We should get something for the baby too. What do you think?
Yes, you're right.
What do you think of something like baby shampoo or talcum powder?
Or we could get a little hat, or something like that.
We don't know the size, or the right colour, do we?
I think we should get something they wouldn't normally buy.
What about a soft toy of some sort?
Yes, a soft toy.
What about a teddy bear?
I could get one early tomorrow at the market
and I could probably get the chocolates there too.
Good.
So you'll pick me up at a quarter to one at my place
and I'll make sure that I've got the presents.
You must remember how much you paid for the gifts,
so I can pay you back for half.
If they're going to be from both of us, I would like to go shares.
Okay.
I'd say the chocolates would be about $15 for something nice and not too small
and the toy would be around $35 or so, I'd think.
Good, that'll be fine. About $25 each then.
Good, I'll pick you up then on Sunday at 12.45.
Okay.
See you then. Bye.
