Good evening, I'm Geoffrey Miller, from the University of Nottingham Student Union.
And in this week's free class, Carlos Garcia is going to tell us about safety around campus.
Over to you, Carlos.
Thank you, Geoffrey. And thank you all for your attendance today.
Also, I would like to thank the student union here at the university for organising this lecture.
Well, I have been serving and protecting the city of Nottingham for over 20 years now
as a member of the police department.
Does anyone know what type of crime is the most prevalent on campus?
I heard someone say drugs and alcohol -
that actually isn't too much of an issue.
Violence? Nope.
Actually, the biggest thing we worry about here is theft.
The nature of crime on Nottingham's campus is quite different from that of the surrounding areas.
Crime rates across the East Midlands are very difficult to control.
We'd like to see the rate stay the same for this calendar year,
but it's been increasing steadily over the past three years.
On campus, however, I'm happy to say that the overall crime rate has fallen this year.
You wouldn't think so if you have seen the extremely exaggerated stories in the media.
The media has done nothing but cause more concern about crime in our area.
Even the crime shows you see today are a little bit farfetched,
but at least viewers know they are not real events.
We'd really like to see more factual news articles out there
so the public can have a rational sense of the safety level of our society.
OK, let's move on to what to do when you see a crime.
Do not get involved if at all possible,
and do not draw too much attention to yourself by running away in a conspicuous manner.
Though most likely and hopefully you will not have to experience this situation,
if you are being mugged please do not try to resist.
Instead, be compliant and, seek help after the incident.
Like I said, though, it is highly unlikely that you will find yourself amidst a crime,
but it is important to be prepared should it ever happen.
We find that educating students and staff on the correct precautions to take is the best way to increase your safety.
Just remember to be smart when you're out late at night,
and avoid any area or person that looks suspicious.
I know it sounds obvious, but I cannot stress this enough.
It's also not a bad idea to have your mobile phone with you at all times,
but be careful.
If you're chatting on your smart phone on your way home,
you're a prime target for thieves.
I'd like to see a show of hands -
how many people have left work or the library after 10 p.m. to go home before?
A lot of you, right?
If you do have to go home late at night, please don't walk home alone.
More often than not there's someone there that will be walking the same direction as you at some point.
Walk home with a friend or coworker.
Even if you must use your phone to call someone that's nearby to walk with you,
it's always safer to walk home with someone.
So when you're walking home,
you may feel more comfortable with some sort of self-defense,
such as pepper spray.
Now, it's your call whether you want to carry something like this or not.
However, I absolutely advise against carrying a knife or any other offensive weapon.
All too often they can be used against you if you're disarmed, putting yourself in more danger.
For all those interested, the recreation centre offers a free self-defense class to all students every Thursday evening.
While obviously an introductory self-defense class may not equip you to fight off villains like a regular superhero,
it does come in handy sometimes.
After taking a self-defense class,
you will surely be more aware of possible dangers and how to deal with them.
So hopefully now you have a more complete understanding of the nature of crimes committed on your campus,
and how to avoid being a victim.
I know most students at the University of Nottingham are not the criminal types,
but remember that there is no barrier like a wall or something keeping nonstudents out.
There is no army force securing the borders, and I doubt anyone wants it that way.
The campus is generally a safe place,
but it's not immune to small crimes once in a while.
Alright. That's all I have to say for today. Stay safe!
