Thank you all for coming to my talk this evening.
It's nice to see so many people in the audience.
For those of you who don't know very much about PS Camping,
let me start by giving you some background information about the company.
The company started 25 years ago.
It actually opened as a retail chain selling camping equipment,
and then 20 years ago, it bought a small number of campsites in the UK,
and began offering camping holidays.
The company grew rapidly
and has been providing holidays in continental Europe for the last 15 years.
If you book a camping holiday with us,
you'll have a choice of over 300 sites.
In Italy, we now have some 64 sites that we either own, or have exclusive use of.
France is where we have the majority of sites,
and we currently have a project to expand into Switzerland.
We also have a number of sites in Northern Spain,
particularly in the mountainous region of Picos de Europa.
We've upgraded all these Spanish sites,
and improved them considerably from their original three-star rating.
We believe our holidays offer superb facilities for the whole family.
Parents who want their children to be fully occupied for all or part of the day
can take advantage of our children's activities.
These are organised by our well-qualified and enthusiastic staff.
Each day kicks off with a sports match, perhaps football, or volleyball,
followed by an hour of drama for everyone.
This may include singing or dancing, mime or other activities.
In the afternoon, there's a different art activity for each day of the week
including a poster competition or model making.
What's more, our sites are truly child-friendly,
and, with this in mind, we operate a no-noise rule in the evenings.
Children's evening activities usually finish at 9.30, or occasionally 10,
and from 10.30 holiday-makers are expected to be quiet in the areas where there are tents.
We want nothing to go wrong on a PS Camping holiday,
but if it does, we also want all our customers to be insured.
If you haven't organised an annual insurance policy of your own
you'll need to take out the low-cost cover we offer
and we require that you arrange this when you make your holiday reservation.
There are many advantages to choosing PS Camping, and to recommending it to others.
As a regular customer, you'll be kept informed of special offers,
and your friends can benefit from 10% off their holiday,
or book a luxury tent for the price of a standard one.
In return, we'll send you a thank-you present,
which you can choose from a list of high-quality items.
When it comes to our tents, these are equipped to the highest standard.
We really do think of every essential detail,
from an oven and cooking rings fuelled by bottled gas,
to mirrors in the bedroom areas.
If you don't want to cook indoors,
you can borrow a barbecue if you ask in advance for one to be made available,
and there's even a picnic blanket to sit on outside your tent.
Inside, a box of games and toys can be found,
and children's tents can be hired if required.
All tents have a fridge,
and if you want to spend the day on the beach, for example,
ask for a specially designed PS Camping cool box,
which will keep your food and drinks chilled.
There are excellent washing facilities at all our sites,
with washing machines and clothes lines in the central areas,
along with mops and buckets in case your tent needs cleaning during your stay.
All sites have a cafe and/or a shop
for those who'd rather 'eat in' than dine at a local restaurant.
