Good morning.
Oh, good morning.
Is this… er… er… room number 26?
Yes, that's right.
So, is this the Student Job Centre?
It certainly is.
How can I help you?
Well, actually I'm looking for a job - a part-time job.
Do you have anything available at the moment?
Ah, yes… Are you a registered student?
I'm afraid this service is only available to full-time students.
Yes… I am.
I'm doing a degree in Business Studies.
Here's my student card.
Which year are you in?
Well… I've been at uni for four years but...
I'm in the third year because I took last year off.
Right… well...
let's just have a look at what positions are available at the moment.
There's a job working at the reception desk at the Sports Centre, for three evenings a week -
that's Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays.
That sounds like fun but...
unfortunately I have evening lectures - so that's not possible, I'm afraid.
Is there anything during the day?
OK, that's no good then.
Um... What about cleaning?
There's a position for a cleaner at the Child Care Centre.
But you'd need to be there at 6 am.
Does that appeal?
Six o'clock in the morning!
Oh, that's far too early for me, I'm afraid...
I'd never make it that early in the morning.
Well, there was a position going in the Computer Lab for three days a week that might be okay.
Ah, here it is!
No, it's in the library, not the lab,
Ah... Clerical Assistant required -
I think it mostly involves putting the books back on the shelves.
Oh no, hang on.
It's for Wednesday and Friday evenings again.
No, I can't manage that because of the lectures.
OK, I'm getting the idea.
Ah... look, I'll just get a few details from you anyway,
and then we can check through the list and see what comes up.
We'll fill in the personal details on this application form first, if that's okay?
Yes, that's fine.
Now, what's your name again?
Anita Newman -
that's NEWMAN.
And your address, Anita?
I'm in one of the Halls of Residence for post-graduate students,
you know, International House.
Okay, that's easy.
Er... what's your room number there?
Room B569.
Er... No, sorry, B659.
I always get that wrong. I haven't been living there very long.
Do you have any other skills?
Typing, languages, that sort of thing?
Well, I speak some Japanese.
Right, I'll make a note of that.
Now, let's see what else is available.
What do you think of administrative work?
There is a position for an Office Assistant at the English Language Centre.
That sounds interesting.
It's for 3 days a week -
Monday, Friday and Saturday mornings.
Interested?
Mmm... I was hoping to have Saturdays free.
But I need the work so…
can you tell me what the job involves?
Yup, sure.
It says here that you'll be required to deal with student enquiries and answer the phone.
Oh, I'm sure I can handle all that without a problem.
Great.
Well, would you like me to arrange an interview for you?
Say, Friday morning, around ten?
Oh... Ah... Could we make it a bit later?
Unfortunately, I've got something to do at ten.
Would that be okay?
Not a problem.
How about eleven thirty?
Hope it works out for you Anita.
Me too. And thanks for all your help.
