Good morning, oh sorry, it's gone 12, I'll start again,
good afternoon, Kingswell Sports Club, how can I help you?
Oh, good afternoon.
I was wondering if you could give me some information about membership and facilities.
Of course.
What would you like to know?
Do you have tennis courts, for example?
No, I'm afraid we don't.
We're primarily a golf club.
What about football?
I heard you had a team.
No, I'm sorry.
Perhaps you're thinking about Fresham Sports Centre.
Oh, right.
I know it.
I've played badminton there.
Have you?
They've got a lot of facilities we don't have and vice versa.
We do have a keep-fit studio, which is very popular with members,
and then as well as that there's swimming, of course.
That's good. I like to swim every day.
We have a range of classes too.
Do you have judo classes?
I'm keen to learn.
Well, at the moment, we offer kick-boxing.
We're planning to add judo and stretch classes soon.
We're currently running a range of yoga classes, too.
What about relaxing after exercise?
I assume you have a restaurant or something.
At the moment, we've got a salad bar which is very popular.
We'll also have a fully-licensed restaurant by the end of the year.
Sounds good!
What kind of membership are you interested in?
Um... I'm not really sure.
What are the options?
Well, there are three different membership schemes.
I see. What's the difference?
Well, the first one's called Gold,
and you can use all the facilities at any time of the day or week.
You can also join in as many classes as you like for free.
That sounds good.
Is it very expensive?
Well, you pay a £250 joining fee
and then it's 450 - oh no, I'm sorry,
it's just gone up by £50, sorry about that -
it's now £500 for the annual subscription fee.
Right, got that.
And what's the next type?
Well, that's Silver -
it's the same as Gold except you have to pay a small fee of £1.00 per lesson for any you do
and you can only use the centre at certain times.
I see. So when exactly?
You can only use the facilities between 10 am and 4.30 pm.
So I couldn't use the pool at 8 in the morning or evening, then?
That's right.
Okay. And the price for that?
Is the joining fee the same as for Gold?
Actually, it's slightly less than the £250 -
it's £225,
but the annual fee is only £300.
Does that sound more like what you want?
Well, it's still rather more expensive than I thought.
I'm a student here in England and I'm only here for six months.
Ah, then the Bronze scheme would probably suit you best.
How is that different?
Well, some of the facilities have restricted use.
And do I have to pay for classes?
Yes, it's £3 for each class you join.
I see. And what are the hours then?
Between 10.30 and 3.30 weekdays only
and you pay a £50 joining fee.
The annual fee is £180 -
it works out at £15 a month, so...
that would be quite a lot cheaper.
Oh, that should be all right.
I could come in my free periods.
What do I have to do if I want to join?
Well, we book you in for an assessment with an instructor,
who will show you how to use all the equipment.
If you want to organise a trial session and look around the centre,
you'll need to speak to David Kynchley.
Could you spell that please?
Yes, David KYNCHLEY.
I'll give you his direct line number.
It's 045895311.
Thanks.
Thank you for calling Kingswell Sports Club.
