Sorry to keep you waiting.
Well, firstly, let me give you this booklet.
It tells you a bit more about the school,
the courses and the social activities we offer.
Now, on the first page,
there's an outline of this morning's activities.
There, you see?
The programme starts at 10 o'clock.
Try not to be late as it's a very full day.
At 10 o'clock, all the new students will gather in the Main Hall
to meet the Principal and the rest of the staff.
In fact, you spend most of the morning in the Main Hall.
Where's that?
I'll show you in a minute.
Just let me quickly run through this morning's events first
and then I'll explain how to get there.
Yes, okay.
Right. Where were we?
Yes, so, the Principal's talk will last about 15 minutes
and then the Director of Studies will talk to you for half an hour about the courses
and the different requirements for each.
After that, the Student Adviser will tell you about the various services and activities we offer to students.
Any questions?
So, all of this is in the Main Hall?
That's right.
And then you'll go next door to Classroom 5 at 11 o'clock.
What happens there?
You'll have a test.
Test?
I don't like the sound of that.
What sort of test?
Oh, it's nothing to worry about.
It's just a placement test to help us find your level of English
so that we can put you in the right class.
It won't last long.
But how do I find the Main Hall?
Right; if you look on the back of the booklet I gave you,
you'll see a map of the school.
Let me show you.
Look; you came in through the Main Entrance, here,
and now we're here at Reception.
Now, to get to the Main Hall,
you walk on to the end of this corridor in front of you
and then you turn left.
Walk along past the Language Laboratory
and then past the Library,
which is next to the Language Lab, on the same side,
and facing you is the Main Hall, at the end of the corridor.
You can't miss it.
So it's next to the Library, in fact.
Yes, that's right.
I should be able to find that.
And do you have a Computer Laboratory?
Yes, we do.
Could you tell me where that is?
Certainly, yes.
You go down to the end of this corridor again
but, this time, don't turn left;
turn right, away from the Main Hall.
The Computer Lab. is immediately on your right. Okay?
And where's the staff room, in case I need to find a teacher at some stage?
The staff room is near the main entrance,
on the left over there, just opposite the Reception desk.
In a day or two, I'm sure you'll find your way around very easily.
Oh, one last thing.
Is there a student common room?
Oh yes, I forgot to mention that.
It's this area here,
very close to where we are now,
to the right of the Reception desk as you come in the main entrance.
There's tea and coffee facilities there.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
