Good morning. How can I help you?
Hello. I'm interested in renting a house somewhere in the town.
Right.
Could I have your name please?
Yes, it's Steven Godfrey.
And tell me how many bedrooms you're looking for.
Well, we'd need 4, because I'm going to share the house with 3 friends.
Okay, there are several of that size on our books.
They mostly belong to families who are working abroad at the moment.
What about the location?
It'd be nice to be central.
That might be difficult, as most houses of that size are in the suburbs.
Still, there are a few.
What's your upper limit for the rent?
We'd like something around £500 a month,
but we could go up to £600 if we have to.
But we can't go beyond that.
Do you know how long you want to rent the house for?
The minimum let is 6 months, as you probably realise.
We're at college here for two years,
and we don't want to have to move during that time if we can avoid it.
Right.
And how soon do you want to move in?
All our lets start on the first of the month.
Well, as soon as possible, really, so that means September 1st.
Okay, let me have a look at what we've got….
We have photographs of all the houses on our books, so you can get an idea of what they're like.
There's this one in Oakington Avenue, at £550 a month.
Combined living room and dining room, with a separate kitchen.
It doesn't have a garage, though you can park in the road.
Ah, we'd prefer to have one, if possible.
Right.
Then have a look at this house, in Mead Street.
It's got a very large living room and kitchen, bathroom, cloakroom...
How much is it?
That one's 580.
It's very well furnished and equipped.
It also has plenty of space for parking, and it's available for a minimum of a year.
Oh, and there's a big garden.
I don't think we could cope with that, to be honest.
We'll be too busy to look after it.
Okay.
Then there's this older house in Hamilton Road:
living room, kitchen-diner, and it has a study.
550 a month.
That looks rather nice.
But whereabouts in Hamilton Road?
Towards the western end.
Oh, that'll be very noisy. I know the area.
Yes, it's pretty lively.
Some people like it, though.
Well, what about this house in Devon Close?
That looks lovely.
There's a big demand for houses in that area, so prices tend to be quite high.
But this one hasn't been decorated for a few years, which has kept the rent down a bit.
It's got a living room, dining room and small kitchen,
and it's 595 a month.
I think it would suit you, from what you've said.
It sounds fine.
Why's that part of town so popular?
Well, there's a big scheme to improve the district, and it'll soon have the best facilities for miles around.
What sort of thing?
There's a big sports centre under construction, which will be very impressive when it's finished.
In fact, the swimming pool's already opened, ahead of schedule,
and it's attracting a lot of people.
What about cinemas: are there any in the area?
The only one closed down last year,
and it's now in the process of being converted into a film museum.
The local people are trying to get a new cinema added to the scheme.
I think I heard something about a plan to replace the existing concert hall with a larger one.
Ah, that's due to start next year.
Well, it sounds an interesting area to live in.
Could I go and see the house, please?
Yes, of course.
