Hello, is this John Murphy?
Hi, yes it is.
Hi John, this is Ed Heisenburg from the Wild Dunes Spa and Resort
calling about your application for our lifeguard position.
Do you have a few minutes to talk?
Yes, absolutely.
Great. Could you give me your address?
Sure.
My address is 45 Elsinore Court.
I'm sorry, was that Eleanor? Could you spell that for me?
Sure - it's Elsinore.
E-L-S-I-N-O-R-E.
Okay, thanks.
And is this the number we should reach you at in the future?
099885767?
No, that's my home phone,
but let me give you my mobile number instead:
077896245.
Call me on that one.
Okay - I'll make a note of that.
Could you tell me your availability?
Sure. I am usually available during afternoons or weekends.
I'd prefer not to be scheduled on weeknights because I work part-time as a waiter.
That shouldn't be a problem,
since we don't stay open very late anyway.
Do you have any other employment experience?
Yes, I have worked at a few other places.
I was the baseball coach at Ridgemont High School last season.
I see.
And do you have any other experience that you would like us to note on your application?
Yes.
Last year I worked at the beach as a rescue diver.
Rescue diver?
That sounds intense!
Well, it's really just like being a lifeguard, except in the ocean instead of a pool.
So kind of like being a lifeguard at the world's largest pool.
Haha. I see.
So could you tell me about the relevant skills you have?
I'm guessing a lot, given your experience.
I am CPR certified and have 2 years of diving experience.
Great! It sounds like you are well qualified for this position.
When does your CPR certification expire?
Hm. I think in November, but let me quickly check my CPR card…
actually, it expires in October.
Okay, so regardless you have it through the end of the summer.
When is your ideal time to work?
Since I work in the restaurant on weeknights,
I like weekends best - specifically Saturday mornings.
I see.
We do already have a lot of staff available on Saturdays,
but I do need an early morning shift lifeguard.
How early could you work Saturday morning?
I can get there by 6 o'clock if need be.
You'll be happy to know we open a little later than that,
but I'll put you down for Saturday mornings here.
Oh awesome! I can't wait to get started.
How about you come in next Saturday, the 12th?
That sounds good.
Great.
We can figure out other shifts for you to work when you come in then.
One last thing - just out of curiosity, where did you hear about us?
I heard your ad on the radio while I was driving this morning.
You know, I think you're the first person who has responded to our radio ads.
It's almost always people who have seen us in the newspaper.
Yeah, I don't have time to read through the newspaper every morning.
I've plenty of time in the car to listen to radio ads.
That makes sense.
Well, thanks for your time, and we'll look forward to seeing you on the 12th.
