Sara, I've heard that you want to move into a homestay family.
Is that correct?
Yes, that's right.
I've been staying with my aunt and now my cousin is arriving from Singapore
and my aunt needs the room for him.
Oh, that's bad luck.
Well, I'll need to get some particulars first.
Sara, what's your full name?
Sara Lim,
and that's Sara without the 'h' at the end.
How old are you, Sara?
23, only just.
It was my birthday on the 21st of August.
Happy birthday for yesterday.
How long have you been in Australia?
A year in Adelaide and 6 months in Sydney.
I prefer Sydney, I've got more friends here.
What's your address at your aunt's house?
Flat one, 539 Forest Road, Canterbury.
And the post code is 2036.
Okay.
What are you studying now?
I was studying General English in Adelaide
and now I'm doing Academic English,
because I'm trying to get into Medicine next year.
That sounds good, but it'll take you a long time.
When would you like to move out from your aunt's?
My cousin arrives on Friday morning,
so I'd better be out on Thursday.
What, the 7th of September?
Yes, that's right.
That doesn't leave us much time.
Right, okay.
I need to know what kind of accommodation you'd like,
so I can get you something suitable.
Can I share a room with someone else?
I've been alone in my room at my aunt's
and I've always shared with my sister and I like that.
Yes, fine.
That'll save you money too.
Would you like to live with a family or do you think that a single person would be better for you?
I have lots of very nice single people on my books.
Do you have any women living alone, retired women?
Yes, I have quite a few whose children have grown up and left home.
In fact, I have some really lovely retired ladies,
living by themselves, who just love the company of students.
Most of them live in flats, but that's not a problem for you, is it?
Not at all. I'm used to that.
My aunt lives in a flat too, remember.
I'm not used to a big house with a garden, swimming pool, pets and all that.
Okay, fine.
I know quite a bit about what you want now.
I should let you know that your rent will be 160 dollars per week.
You'll have to pay me 320 dollars as a deposit before you move in.
The deposit is as insurance, in case you break something.
You'll need to pay monthly to me, by cash or cheque, I don't mind.
You don't need to pay for gas, electricity or water,
but you will need to pay your proportion of the phone bill.
Most families do that on an honour system,
but you'll have to wait and see.
Have you got any more questions for me?
When will you know where I can go?
I'll work on it now,
so come and see me tomorrow and I should have some news for you then.
Thanks a lot.
Goodbye. See you tomorrow - after lunch would be better for me.
Okay, see you then. Bye.
