Good evening everyone
and thank you for coming to the Soccer Club meeting.
It's good to see so many parents and children here tonight,
and I know you're looking forward to a great football season.
Now I'd like to take a few minutes to tell you about some changes to the Soccer Club for the coming season.
Now, this season we'll be playing all our matches for both the junior and senior competitions at King's Park,
instead of Royal Park, which was used last season.
Now, for meetings, we're going to use the clubhouse in King's Park,
and the next meeting will be held in the clubhouse on the 2nd of July.
As usual, we hope to begin the season with a picnic next Saturday at the clubhouse.
Please try and come to the picnic as it's always good fun.
In the last week of the season, we usually have a dinner and presentation of prizes to the players,
and more information about this will be given to you later in the season.
This season we have more teams than ever.
We hope to have ten teams, instead of five, in the junior competition
and they will play on Saturday mornings, beginning at 8.30 a.m.
Training sessions will be held in King's Park on Wednesday afternoons for the juniors
and they will be wearing red shirts again this year.
In the senior competition, there'll be four teams, same as last year,
and their games will be played on Saturday afternoons starting at 2.30,
oh, no sorry, it will be a 2 o'clock start,
and the training session for seniors is planned for Sunday afternoons.
Now I'd like to introduce you to the new committee for the Soccer Club for this season.
Firstly, let me welcome Robert Young, the new President,
who will manage the meetings for the next two years.
Robert's son has been playing football with the club for over five years now,
and many thanks to Robert for taking on the job of President.
Next we have Gina Costello, she's the treasurer,
and she'll collect the fees from you for the season.
Please try and give Gina your fees as early as possible in the season,
as the club needs the money to buy some new equipment.
Then there's David West who has volunteered to be the club secretary,
and one of the many jobs he'll have is to send out newsletters to you regularly.
If you have any information that may be useful,
please let David know so that it can be included in these newsletters.
Also, I'd like to introduce you to Jason Dokic who is the Head Coach.
For all the new members here tonight, this is the third year that Jason has been with us as Head Coach,
and we're very lucky to have such an experienced coach and former player at our club.
He will continue to supervise the teams, at training sessions and on match days.
Now, before we finish and have some refreshments,
does anyone have any questions they'd like to ask the new committee?
