Well, Amina, thanks for letting me have your draft in such good time.
Oh, that's alright.
I was just very anxious to hear what you think of it.
You can see that I decided to change the topic.
I had been interested in looking at Barings Factory.
Oh, I think the hospital was a much better choice.
In fact... well... I have to say that I thought it was good.
Oh?
There's still lots of work to be done...
Oh yes... of course.
But there's plenty of good ideas.
It opens well and the first chapter is fine
but the middle section really stood out for me... most interesting.
That's amazing
because I really didn't find it a bit easy to write...
How long did you work on the whole thing?
Well, I spent about two or three weeks reading and doing general research
and then I dashed the writing off very quickly...
so about four weeks in all.
Well, that's about par for the course.
You've got a while yet to make the changes.
Oh right... no problem...
Right. Let's have a look at my notes here.
Okay. Starting with section headings...
the broad divisions are good but you'll have to re-do the actual headings.
I've made some suggestions in the margins...
Okay. Thanks.
Now, this information on local housing...
I can see why you put it there
but it really isn't relevant to the approach you've taken.
I think I see what you mean.
Now... what did I say about the interviews?
I worked very hard on those.
I really thought they were valuable.
They are, Amina, but they're very complex and rather unclear at the moment.
You're going to have to spend a bit of time making the data a lot clearer.
Okay...
as long as I don't have to remove them altogether...
No, don't worry.
What about the chronology...
the list of dates?
I wasn't sure whether I should rewrite those.
My advice on that is to take them out. I feel it makes the whole piece appear too simplistic.
Okay, if it'll help.
Now, there are a couple of other books I'd like you to look at.
Have you got a pen?
Right... Approaches to Local History by John Mervis...
Right...
And then I think you need to think about ways of representing interview data.
Have a look at Sight and Sound by Kate Oakwell.
Sight and Sound.
Then you know I'm going away on holiday next week...
Yes.
So when you've made the changes, I suggest you show the work to your Support Tutor.
Support Tutor... right...
Then you do the proof reading...
Proof reading...
When by, do you think?
I'd aim for the 29th of June
and after that you should get it laser printed...
but be careful because the computer centre closes on 10 July.
And then I hand it in to...?
Oh, the Faculty Office as usual.
Okay, that's fine.
I think I'm all set now!
Thanks very much for all your help.
A pleasure.
See you when I get back.
Yep. Thanks, Dr Bryson.
Bye.
Bye.
