Good morning. What can I do for you?
I want to report a theft.
I had some things stolen out of my bag yesterday.
I'm sorry to hear that.
Right, so I'll need to take a few details.
Can I start with your name?
Louise Taylor.
OK, thank you.
And are you resident in the UK?
No, I'm actually Canadian. Though my mother was British.
And your date of birth?
December 14th, 1977.
So you're just visiting this country?
That's right.
I come over most summers on business.
I'm an interior designer and I come over to buy old furniture, antiques you know.
There are some really lovely things around here,
but you need to get out to the small towns.
I've had a really good trip this year, until this happened.
OK.
So you've been here quite a while?
Yes, I'm here for two months.
I go back next week.
So may I ask where you're staying now?
Well at present I've got a place at Park Apartments, that's on King Street.
I was staying at the Riverside Apartments on the same street,
but the apartment there was only available for six weeks
so I had to find another one.
OK.
And the apartment number?
Fifteen.
Right.
Now, I need to take some details of the theft.
So you said you had some things stolen out of your bag?
That's right.
And were you actually carrying the bag when the theft took place?
Yes, I really can't understand it.
I had my backpack on.
And I went into a supermarket to buy a few things
and when I opened it up my wallet wasn't there.
And what did your wallet have in it?
Well, fortunately I don't keep my credit cards in that wallet,
I keep them with my passport in an inside compartment in my backpack.
But there was quite a bit of cash there…
about £250 sterling, I should think.
I withdrew £300 from my account yesterday,
but I did a bit of shopping,
so I must have already spent about £50 of that.
OK.
At first I thought, oh I must have left the wallet back in the apartment,
but then I realised my phone had gone as well.
It was only a week old,
and that's when I realised I'd been robbed.
Anyway at least they didn't take the keys to my rental car.
Yes.
So you say the theft occurred yesterday?
Yes.
So that was September the tenth.
And do you have any idea at all of where or when the things might possibly have been stolen?
Well at first I couldn't believe it because the bag had been on my back ever since I left the apartment after lunch.
It's just a small backpack,
but I generally use it when I'm travelling because it seems safer than a handbag.
Anyway, I met up with a friend,
and we spent a couple of hours in the museum.
But I do remember that as we were leaving there, at about 4 o'clock,
a group of young boys ran up to us,
and they were really crowding round us,
and they were asking us what time it was,
then all of a sudden they ran off.
Can you remember anything about them?
The one who did most of the talking was wearing a T-shirt with a picture of something…
let's see… a tiger.
Right.
Any idea of how old he might have been?
Around twelve years old?
And can you remember anything else about his appearance?
Not much.
He was quite thin…
Colour of hair?
I do remember that - he was blond.
All the others were dark-haired.
And any details of the others?
Not really.
They came and went so quickly.
Right.
So what I'm going to do now is give you a crime reference number so you can contact your insurance company.
So this is ten digits:
8795482361.
Thank you.
So should I contact…
