Conference Centre Reservations. Good morning.
Hi. I'm interested in the computing conference next month.
Future Directions in Computing?
Yes, that's right.
Could I ask you a few questions about it?
Of course.
OK.
I know the conference is for three days
but actually I want to attend on the Friday and Saturday only.
Will that work out to be any cheaper?
Let me have a look.
Well, you could register for the two days separately,
but that wouldn't actually save you very much
as it still costs £35 for each day.
In fact, if you could register for the three days,
you also get an invitation to a free dinner on the Saturday night,
so that's probably the better option.
Right, I'll do that.
How much will the fees be in that case?
It's £75.
All right.
I'd like to register for the full three days.
Now, can I pay that by credit card?
I'm afraid not.
You'll have to send a cheque to us,
or you can pay at the conference office.
Fine.
So it's probably easiest if I pay by cheque.
Now then, what else do I need to arrange?
Right. How about accommodation?
I guess that's not included in the price?
No, I'm sorry, it's not,
but we do have a few rooms available for delegates at the conference centre if you'd like.
Those are very cheap but if you're interested you'll need to book soon,
because there's always a heavy demand for them.
They are only £15 per night,
but they are very basic and you'd have to get your own breakfast,
because they don't provide you with that.
But it's very convenient,
because it's in the same building as the conference rooms.
Uhuh.
Or there's a very reasonable guest house which is £25 per night.
And I think that includes your breakfast.
Is it close to the conference centre?
It would be about a ten-minute walk away from here.
I see.
That sounds quite reasonable.
The details are all in our conference pack, which I'll send you.
Great, thanks.
That'll be very useful.
Oh, and can you also send me an application form?
Of course.
I'll get that in the post to you straight away.
Is there anything else?
Yes, actually.
Can you tell me where exactly the conference centre is?
Well, it's on South Park Road and it's right at the end of the road next to the library.
It's a ten-minute taxi ride from the station
and will cost you £5.
Otherwise, you can take the bus which runs every half an hour from the station,
that's the 21A,
and it brings you straight to the conference centre.
Right, got that.
