Thank you for calling the Tourist Line.
There are many different ways of getting round the city
and we'd like to suggest some you may not have thought of.
How about a city trip by boat?
There are four main stopping points - from west to east:
stop A: Green Banks,
stop B: City Bridge,
stop C: Roman Landing
and stop D: Newtown.
You can find the main booking office at stop A.
The first boat leaves at 8 a.m.
and the last one at 6.30 p.m.
There are also many attractions you can visit along the river.
At Stop A, if you have time,
you can visit the fine 16th century palace here
built for the king with its beautiful formal gardens.
It's very near the booking office.
Now, you can enjoy every corner of this superb residence.
Stop B - Why don't you visit Tower Restaurant with its wide range of refreshments?
This is a place where you can sit and enjoy the wonderful views over the old commercial and banking centre of the city.
Stop C is the area where, in the first century AD, invading soldiers crossed the river;
this was much shallower than it is now.
That's why this area is called Roman Landing.
There's an interactive museum to visit here
with a large shop which has a good range of local history books.
At the furthest point of the trip, stop D,
the most exciting place to visit is the new Entertainment Complex
with seven-screen cinema, bowling alley and video games arcade.
Besides the boat tours, there are city buses.
Two companies offer special services:
The Top Bus Company runs all its tours with a live commentary in English.
Tours leave from 8.30 a.m. every 20 minutes.
There are departures from Central Station, Castle Hill and Long Walk.
This is a hop-on hop-off service
and tickets are valid for 24 hours.
For further details call Top Bus on...
02089447810.
The Number One Sightseeing Tour is available with a commentary in eight languages.
Buses depart from Central Station every five to six minutes from about 9 a.m.
with the last bus at around 7 p.m.
There are also Number One services with an English-speaking…
